Refresh matchable resources documentation (#4859)
flyteorg/flyte: docs/deployment/configuration/resource_manager.rst

.. _deployment-configuration-resource-manager:

#####################
Flyte ResourceManager
#####################

> **Flyte ResourceManager** is a configurable component that allows plugins to manage resource allocations independently. It helps track resource utilization of tasks that run on Flyte. The default deployments are configured as ``noop``, which indicates that the ResourceManager provided by Flyte is disabled and plugins rely on each independent platform to manage resource utilization. In situations like the K8s plugin, where the platform has a robust mechanism to manage resource scheduling, this may work well. However, in a scenario like a simple web API plugin, the rate at which Flyte sends requests may overwhelm a service and benefit from additional resource management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Flyte ResourceManager** is a configurable component that helps track resource utilization of tasks that run on Flyte and allows plugins to manage resource allocations independently. Default deployments are configured with the ResourceManager disabled, which means plugins rely on each independent platform to manage resource utilization. See below for the default ResourceManager configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

    resourcemanager:
      type: noop

When using a plugin that connects to a platform with a robust resource scheduling mechanism, like the K8s plugin, we recommend leaving the default ``flyteresourcemanager`` configuration in place. However, with web API plugins (for example), the rate at which Flyte sends requests may overwhelm a service, and we recommend changing the ``resourcemanager`` configuration.

```

> The below attribute is configurable within FlytePropeller, which can be disabled with:

Reviewer: This line and the code block below can be removed, since they're included in the suggestion above.

.. code-block:: yaml

    resourcemanager:
      type: noop

The ResourceManager provides a task-type-specific pooling system for Flyte tasks. Optionally, plugin writers can request resource allocation in their tasks.

A plugin defines a collection of resource pools using its configuration. Flyte uses tokens as a placeholder to represent a unit of resource.

> How does a Flyte plugin request for resources?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How Flyte plugins request resources
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The Flyte plugin registers the resource and the desired quota of every resource with the **ResourceRegistrar** when setting up FlytePropeller. When a plugin is invoked, FlytePropeller provides a proxy for the plugin. This proxy facilitates the plugin's view of the resource pool by controlling operations to allocate and deallocate resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flyte plugins register the desired resource and resource quota with the **ResourceRegistrar** when setting up FlytePropeller. When a plugin is invoked, FlytePropeller provides a proxy for the plugin. This proxy facilitates the plugin's view of the resource pool by controlling operations to allocate and deallocate resources.
```

> .. dropdown:: :fa:`info-circle` Enabling Redis instance

Reviewer: I would recommend moving this to the bottom of the section, below all the other content, and either changing the dropdown title to "Enabling a Redis instance as an external store to track and manage resource pool allocation" or turning the dropdown into a note, so people don't miss this info.

   :title: text-muted
   :animate: fade-in-slide-down

   The ResourceManager can use a Redis instance as an external store to track and manage resource pool allocation. By default, it is disabled, and can be enabled with:

   .. code-block:: yaml

       resourcemanager:
          type: redis
          resourceMaxQuota: 100
          redis:
            hostPaths:
              - foo
            hostKey: bar
            maxRetries: 0

Once the setup is complete, FlytePropeller builds a ResourceManager based on the previously requested resource registration. Based on the plugin implementation's logic, resources are allocated and deallocated.

During runtime, the ResourceManager:

#. Allocates tokens to the plugin.

> #. Releases tokens once the task is completed.

Reviewer: I would move the line "In this manner, Flyte plugins intelligently throttle resource usage during parallel execution of nodes" up here.

> How are resources allocated?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plugin resource allocation
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> When a Flyte task execution needs to send a request to an external service, the plugin claims a unit of the corresponding resource. This is done using a **ResourceName**, which is a unique token and a fully qualified resource request (which is typically an integer). The execution generates this unique token and registers this token with the ResourceManager by calling the ResourceManager’s **"AllocateResource function"**. If the resource pool has sufficient capacity to fulfil your request, then the resources requested are allocated, and the plugin proceeds further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a Flyte task execution needs to send a request to an external service, the plugin claims a unit of the corresponding resource using a **ResourceName**, which is a unique token and a fully qualified resource request (typically an integer). The task execution generates this unique token and registers the token with the ResourceManager by calling the ResourceManager’s ``AllocateResource`` function. If the resource pool has sufficient capacity to fulfill the request, then the requested resources are allocated, and the plugin proceeds further.
```

> When the status is **"AllocationGranted"**, the execution moves forward and sends out the request for those resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the status changes to **"AllocationGranted"**, the execution sends out the request for those resources.
```

Reviewer: I'm not clear on whose status this is....is it the status of the ResourceManager?

Author: the status of the allocation for the unit of the resource I believe

> The granted token is recorded in a token pool which corresponds to the resource that is managed by the ResourceManager.

Reviewer: Who records this token?

> How are resources deallocated?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plugin resource deallocation
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> When the request is completed, the plugin asks the ResourceManager to release the token by calling the ReleaseResource() function present in the ResourceManager. Upon calling the function, the token is eliminated from the token pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the request is completed, the plugin asks the ResourceManager to release the token by calling the ResourceManager's ``ReleaseResource()`` function, which eliminates the token from the token pool.
```

> In this manner, Flyte plugins intelligently throttle resource usage during parallel execution of nodes.

Reviewer: Remove this line (see above)

Example
^^^^^^^^

> Let's take an example to understand resource allocation and deallocation when a plugin requests resources.

Reviewer: I would remove this line

> Flyte has a built-in `Qubole <https://docs.flyte.org/projects/flyteidl/en/latest/protos/docs/plugins/plugins.html#qubolehivejob>`__ plugin. This plugin allows Flyte tasks to send Hive commands to Qubole. In the plugin, a single Qubole cluster is considered a resource, and sending a single Hive command to a Qubole cluster consumes a token of the corresponding resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flyte has a built-in `Qubole <https://docs.flyte.org/projects/flyteidl/en/latest/protos/docs/plugins/plugins.html#qubolehivejob>`__ plugin which allows Flyte tasks to send Hive commands to Qubole. In the plugin, a single Qubole cluster is considered a resource, and sending a single Hive command to a Qubole cluster consumes a token of the corresponding resource.
```

> The resource is allocated when the status is **“AllocationGranted”**. Qubole plugin calls:

Reviewer: Again, would be useful to specify whose status this is.

> The resource is allocated when the status is **“AllocationGranted”**. Qubole plugin calls:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resource is allocated when the status is **“AllocationGranted”**. The Qubole plugin calls:
```

.. code-block:: go

   status, err := AllocateResource(ctx, <cluster name>, <token string>, <constraint spec>)

> Wherein the placeholders are occupied by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our example scenario, the placeholder values are replaced with the following:
```

.. code-block:: go

   status, err := AllocateResource(ctx, "default_cluster", "flkgiwd13-akjdoe-0", ResourceConstraintsSpec{})

The resource is deallocated when the Hive command completes its execution and the corresponding token is released. The plugin calls:

.. code-block:: go

   status, err := AllocateResource(ctx, <cluster name>, <token string>, <constraint spec>)

> Wherein the placeholders are occupied by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our example scenario, the placeholder values are replaced with the following:
```

.. code-block:: go

   err := ReleaseResource(ctx, "default_cluster", "flkgiwd13-akjdoe-0")

> Below is an example interface that shows allocation and deallocation of resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See below for an example interface that shows allocation and deallocation of resources:
```

.. code-block:: go

    type ResourceManager interface {
    GetID() string
    // During execution, the plugin calls AllocateResource() to register a token in the token pool associated with a resource
    // If it is granted an allocation, the token is recorded in the token pool until the same plugin releases it.
    // When calling AllocateResource, the plugin has to specify a ResourceConstraintsSpec that contains resource capping constraints at different project and namespace levels.
    // The ResourceConstraint pointers in ResourceConstraintsSpec can be set to nil to not have a constraint at that level
    AllocateResource(ctx context.Context, namespace ResourceNamespace, allocationToken string, constraintsSpec ResourceConstraintsSpec) (AllocationStatus, error)
    // During execution, after an outstanding request is completed, the plugin uses ReleaseResource() to release the allocation of the token from the token pool. This way, it redeems the quota taken by the token
    ReleaseResource(ctx context.Context, namespace ResourceNamespace, allocationToken string) error
    }

> How can you force ResourceManager to force runtime quota allocation constraints?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring ResourceManager to force runtime quota allocation constraints
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Runtime quota allocation constraints can be achieved using ResourceConstraintsSpec. It is a contact that a plugin can specify at different project and namespace levels.

Reviewer: Should "contact" be "contract"?

> Let's take an example to understand it.

Reviewer: I would remove this line.

Author: sorry this was just refactoring the existing resource manager docs into a separate file

> You can set ResourceConstraintsSpec to ``nil`` objects, which means there would be no allocation constraints at the respective project and namespace level. When ResourceConstraintsSpec specifies ``nil`` ProjectScopeResourceConstraint, and a non-nil NamespaceScopeResourceConstraint, it suggests no constraints specified at any project or namespace level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can set ResourceConstraintsSpec to ``nil`` objects, which means there would be no allocation constraints at the respective project and namespace level. When ResourceConstraintsSpec specifies ``nil`` ProjectScopeResourceConstraint, and a non-nil NamespaceScopeResourceConstraint, it suggests no constraints specified at any project or namespace level.
```

Reviewer: I'm a little confused by this example -- wouldn't a non-nil NamespaceScopeResourceConstraint suggest a constraint at the namespace level?

When using a plugin that connects to a platform with a robust resource scheduling mechanism, like the K8s plugin, we recommend leaving the default ``flyteresourcemanager`` configuration in place. However, with web API plugins (for example), the rate at which Flyte sends requests may overwhelm a service, and we recommend changing the ``resourcemanager`` configuration.

> The below attribute is configurable within FlytePropeller, which can be disabled with:

Author: any reason to delete this?

Reviewer: It seemed duplicative of lines 7-12 above, but I can add it back if it seems helpful to call it out again with the emphasis on disabling resource manager.

Author: gotcha, ripping it out sounds good 👍
